the US has sent a second carrier strike
group to the Eastern Mediterranean the
show of force has meant to deter
Regional actors namely Iran and
lebanon's Hezbollah from widening the
war last week the US deployed a separate
carrier international waters off
Israel's
Coast back in Washington DC US President
Joe Biden was heckled by a pro
Palestinian protester while discussing
the situation in Gaza take a
look
oh
look I can't hear what she
saying well thank you whatever you're
saying I'm going to say thank I can't
hear
you let's go live now to Heidi Joe
Castro in Washington DC for us as we saw
there Joe Biden being heckled by that
Pro Palestinian protester is he likely
to face more pressure particularly from
his younger support base over America's
stance with
Israel maleen yes and in fact Biden
already is just on Saturday there were
55 members of the US House of
Representatives who sent him a letter
along with uh SEC Secretary of State uh
Anthony blinkin calling for the two to
urge Israel to follow international law
in its response to Hamas and not
inflicting widespread harm to civilians
uh now this was a letter that was signed
by uh a number of house uh Democratic
progresses but notably it was also
joined by a few Democratic moderates uh
who signed this letter as well and it
was a sign that in this Congress that
has really come out in favor of Israel
there are some voices of dissent
emerging though I have to note that this
letter also unequivocally condemned in
its words the terrorist attacks uh from
Hamas upon Israeli civilians but we are
seeing more and more of this sentiment
In Pockets around the us including at
some protests there was one notable one
in New York in front of the home of the
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
who's about to lead a delegation to
Israel from Congress and this protest
was uh held by uh Progressive is uh
Progressive Jewish groups in the US and
it resulted in about a dozen arrests
including rabbis as well as the
descendants of Jewish Holocaust
Survivors that protest in front of Chuck
Schumer's home in New York was to
protest what they call the genocide of
Palestinians in
Gaza and now we have reports of a second
US aircraft carrier entering the region
is this an attempt at some kind of
deterrence absolutely Ely and this is
something that we had been expecting
this is the Dwight D Eisenhower aircraft
carrier which was already scheduled to
deploy to that region it's on its way
there already and today on Saturday
rather came the official confirmation
from the US Secretary of Defense Lloyd
Austin that part of this Mission will be
to uh go to the Eastern Mediterranean in
response to this this conflict and of
course its ultimate purpose there is to
deter this conflict from widening it's a
message to Hezbollah and Lebanon as well
as Iran uh to not get involved in this
any further than they have and of course
it's joining the first US aircraft
carrier that Gerald R Ford that is in
that region for the same purpose already
hardi Joe Castro there for us in
Washington thank you